[Music]
it's two months into Israel's war on
Gaza and the military Onslaught against
Palestinians persists unabated the
offensive began on October the 7th after
an unprecedented attack by Hamas
Fighters members of the alasan brigades
that's the armed wing of the group and
other Palestinian resistance Fighters
infiltrated Israeli territory by air
Land and Sea a ,1 147 Israelis were
killed that day including 320 soldiers
and 59 police officers at least 240
people Israelis and foreign Nationals
were taken captive what ensued was a
declaration of war by the Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu on Hamas and a
promise to eliminate the group his
defense minister immediately halted the
import of all water food electricity and
fuel to the strip for the past several
weeks have seen an intense
indiscriminate aerial bombardment of
Gaza that's flattened entire
neighborhoods and caused unimaginable
suffering a ground Invasion Then
followed no one and nothing has been
spared schools hospitals mosques
churches shops every aspect of daily
life has been targeted but the heaviest
toll has been on civilians more than
16,000 Palestinians have been killed in
Gaza more than 7,000 of them children
that means the Israeli Army kills one
child every 10 minutes and 1.9 million
people have been forcibly displaced We
Begin our special coverage with some of
the sites and sounds from the past two
months of Israel's war on
Gaza
[Music]
Israel is at
War
[Music]
all right we begin our extensive
coverage with our two correspondents on
the ground following the story we have
Alan fiser in occupi East Jerusalem
we'll be speaking to him in just a few
minutes but first let's go to hanni
Mahmud Han you're joining us from
that's in the south of Gaza and two
months on Han he give us a sense of the
scale of suffering and the moods in
Gaza yes well uh for 60 days
Palestinians have been experiencing uh
the worst of living conditions under
heavy Israeli bombardment since day one
uh of the war where talking about a mass
bombardment carbet bombardment of entire
neighborhoods and entire residential
blocks uh we have a large numbers of
residential buildings have been
destroying a level to the ground an
entire residential blocks flattened a
completely a large number of critically
injured Palestinians a overwhelmed
hospitals with shortage extreme shortage
of medical supplies and Necessities to
uh uh to keep them
surviving there is a serious lack of
everything that Palestinians need to
survive so far the mood of those 60 days
has been death destruction and
displacement the worst of these happen
to be the three together as Palestinians
run from one place to another for their
life to avoid getting bombed in areas
where war is active and lots of
bombardment going on to get bombed in a
different areas 1.5 million Palestinian
that's a little over half of the
population of the Gaza have been under
heavy bombardment and forc displacement
for the past 60 days we're talking about
60 days of constant movement and running
for their lives from one place to
another from extreme northern part of
the gos city of B Haron all the way to
the extreme southern part of the gos RAF
City where lots of people are being
packed and squeezed in this area since
the first week of the war Gaza has been
put under a total Siege we're talking
about a no food supplies no medical
supplies a no Necessities or survival
items that could help people survive
their Calamity on top of that the amount
of humanitarian Aid that been allowed
into Gaza only represent a drop in the
ocean of their needs under these unusual
conditions indeed people have been put
under extremely unusual living
conditions where they had to cure for
hours to get a gallon of water or half a
day to get a pack of a bread the
hospitals are
another difficulty story where we have
two of the largest health facilities in
the Gaza Strip the shifa hospital and
the Nan Hospital have been forced to be
out of service under heavy bombardment
and in intentional direct targeting of
its medical team where they are now
completely out of service other Hospital
midsize hospitals eventually had to be
forced out of service given the lack of
medical supplies and fuel that keep them
sustainable for at least some times but
with the tsunami of injuries and the uh
the ongoing bombardment just put them
out of service completely and put the
life of of the remaining resident is
stranded in the Gaza City and the
northern part at risk and there is as
there are no functioning Health
Facilities we're talking about people
being uh getting injured we're talking
about people are getting killed but
there is no hospital to receive them the
last of these remaining midsize Health
Facilities has been calan hospital and
within the past two days it was forced
out of service it was already running on
a very very low capacity giving the size
of the hospital as a small health
facility but it was overwhelmed running
Beyond its capacity more than 50 times
of its capacity the last thing the
hospital did was more of a morg a large
Mor morg receiving large number of
injuries and dead bodies and and hany um
you know families are are having to make
such difficult decisions one of it one
of which is as you're saying uh uh
they're forced to leave their home
but where do they go because we
understand and we hear over and over and
over that nowhere is safe in the Gaza
Strip indeed there is no safer place in
the Gaza Strip and so far the isra
narrative whether through their the
dropped leaflets or the calls the phone
calls they make to the residents of the
god STP or the text message have been so
far as people describe them they're
vague they are confusing and they are
contradictory as most of the time people
end up in an area that is under heavy
bombardment that has been described by
the Israeli military as a safe area for
them and we've seen example of this
within the past a few weeks where people
were ordered to evacuate sharply with a
threatening tone to evacuate the
northern part and Gaza City going to the
central and the southern part and but to
to find them themselves under
unpredictable bombs falling on their how
there are entire families who evacuated
from Gaza City and the northern part got
killed in the central part in the N
refugee camp in Dar balah as well as in
khun particularly at hammed city where
multiple residential Towers were
targeted and destroyed and here in Rafa
City many of the families from Gaza got
killed right after they were ordered to
evacuate two days or sometimes within
hours of their EV evacuation they were
killed here again people insist that
those leaflets those calls those smart
techniques that are used by the Israeli
military to order the evacuation they're
not as smart at all they are confusing
they are uh they are vague and they are
contradictory to the brutality on the
ground of those air strikes all right
thank you so much hany for that update
from RAF in the south of the Gaza Strip
let's now bring in Alan fiser he's
joining us from occupied East Jerusalem
so Alan uh does the government in Israel
believe that it's any closer to
achieving its objectives two months
on well you've heard from the Israeli
government from the very beginning that
this would be a long and difficult
operation and will certainly expand into
the new year which is what just 3 weeks
away the Israelis believe that they are
making advances that they have severely
hit Hamas that they've killed a number
of of commanders that they have damaged
the tunnels the infrastructure the
weapon stores that they have in various
places in Northern Gaza and of course
now they're turning their attention to
the southern part of the Gaza Strip and
that will be the next part of the
operation what is likely is that the
face of Gaza and the Border communities
in Israel will be changed forever
because of what is happening in Gaza at
the moment uh what is less clear is that
the Israeli government will finally
achieve its objective to completely
destroy Hamas it says that is its main
goal to completely take away the power
that Hamas has and make sure they can
never operate again but if you speak to
many people on both sides in Israel they
will tell you that that is an incredibly
difficult thing to do and of course
while they push forward with their
agenda Prosecuting the war across all of
Gaza the death toll continues to rights
yeah and Alan as we know there remain um
Israeli captives who are who are still
being held in Gaza what's the mood like
these days two months on amongst the
Israeli
public if you look at the opinion polls
if you speak to ordinary Israelis they
will tell you their primary goal is the
return of the hostages and that is
certainly the primary goal of
netanyahu's government and how they're
doing it of course is through trying to
put pressure militarily on Hamas and
trying to destroy Hamas anecdotally most
people agreed with the end of the
ceasefire quite simply because all of
the the captives had not been returned
and they feel that that is the primary
goal what is also interesting is that
many people believe the war in h against
Hamas is the correct thing to do but
clearly there is concern of the rising
civilian death to there also interesting
in the the opinion polls is that the
longer the war goes on the better
Benjamin Netanyahu is doing in the first
3 or 4 weeks his political fate seemed
to be sealed and that his career would
be over but just in the last few weeks
his popularity has begun to rise again
but if you look internationally almost
every country in the world when they do
an opinion poll on what is happening in
Gaza supports a ceas fire and supports
an end to the fighting there now there
will be a demilitarized Gaza at the end
of this war
Benjamin Netanyahu says that is his
intention and he also says that Mahmud
Abbas will never preside over the West
Bank in Gaza while he is prime minister
well there's a possibility that after
the war he might not be prime minister
for very much longer all right thank you
so much alen Fisher reporting from
occupied East Jerusalem